\acknowledgments
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation
under Grant No. CNS-1526304. I would first and foremost like to thank my primary
advisor, Dr. Henry (Hank) Hoffmann. Without his compassion, patience, and wealth
of experience, none of this work would have been possible. I'd like to thank my
committee members Dr. Ariel J. Feldman (Applied Crypto), Dr. Haryadi S. Gunawi
(Filesystems), and Dr. David Cash (Crypto Theory) for all their hard work.
Hopefully I spelled everyone's names correctly this time!

I'd also like to acknowledge my former students Richard Anthony Alvarez and
Trevor James Medina for their contributions to HASCHK. Of course, I'd like to
acknowledge my mother Michelle Davis who throughout my childhood \emph{always}
had money for Computer Science workbooks (but not McDonalds!), my father for
always having my best interests at heart, my inspiring siblings, Zara for the
infinity life lessons, Jeff Holmes of the old Chicago Broadway Armory for
showing an eight-year-old me just how fun and powerful computers can be, Von
Steuben high school Computer Science teachers Stirling Crow and Andres Hernandez
for teaching me web design and gifting me the wisdom to ``use my powers for
good,'' my coach Audra Anderson and the BDPA for teaching me humility and how to
be an effective and engaging teacher, Dr. Rahmelle Thompson of the Morehouse
College Hopps Scholars program for revealing my trajectory to me, Dr. Adrienne
Raglin of the Department of Defense Army Research Laboratory for putting up with
me (twice!) and teaching me what real research looks like, the University of
Chicago and all its faculty and staff for fostering a culture of socially
conscious elite intellectual pursuit, President Barack H. Obama and Senator
Elizabeth Warren for demonstrating black excellence and how to persist
nevertheless, and all my PhD colleagues, mentors, former students, and true
friends over the years for their unwavering support throughout this process.

Know I would not have made it without you all.
