\section{Evaluation} \label{sec:sc-evaluation}

We implement SwitchCrypt and our experiments on a Hardkernel Odroid XU3 ARM
big.LITTLE system with Samsung Exynos 5422 A15/A7 heterogeneous multi-processing
quad core CPUs at maximum clock speed, 2 gigabyte LPDDR3 RAM at 933 MHz, and an
eMMC5.0 HS400 backing store running Ubuntu Trusty 14.04.6 LTS, kernel version
3.10.106. Energy monitoring was provided by the Odroid's integrated INA-231
power sensors polled every $\approx{260}$ milliseconds (not including
noise/overhead).

We evaluate SwitchCrypt using a Linux RAM disk (tmpfs). The maximum theoretical
memory bandwidth for this Odroid model is 14.9GB/s\@. Our observed maximum
memory bandwidth is 4.5GB/s. Using a RAM disk focuses the evaluation on the
performance differences due to different ciphers.

In each experiment below, we evaluate SwitchCrypt on two high level workloads:
sequential and random I/O. In both workloads, a number of bytes are written and
then read (either 4KB, 512KB, 5MB, 40MB) 10 times. Each workload is repeated
three times for a total of 240 tests per cipher (720 runs per cipher
pair/ratios, explained below); 30 results per byte size, 120 results per
workload. Results are accumulated and the median is taken for each byte size.

When evaluating switching strategies, a finer breakdown in workloads is made
using a pre-selected pair of ciphers we call the \emph{primary cipher
configuration} and \emph{secondary cipher configuration}. SwitchCrypt is
initialized at the primary configuration. Once we trigger a cipher switch,
SwitchCrypt moves towards the secondary configuration via switching strategy.

The cipher switch is triggered according to a certain \emph{ratio} of I/O
operations. For example: given 10 40MB read-write operations, we may write and
then read back 40MB 3 times using the primary cipher, initiate a cipher switch,
and then write and then read back (write-read) 40MB 7 times. This would be a 3:7
ratio. It follows that there are three ratios we use to evaluate SwitchCrypt's
performance in this regard: 7:3, 5:5, and 3:7. Respectively, that is 7 file
write-read operation in the primary cipher for every 3 file write-read
operations in the secondary cipher (7:3), 7 file write-read operation in the
primary cipher for every other file write-read operation in the secondary cipher
(5:5), and 3 file write-read operations in the primary cipher for every 7 file
write-read operation in the secondary cipher (3:7).

All experiments are performed with basic Linux I/O commands, bypassing system
caching.

In this section we answer the following questions:

\begin{enumerate}
 \item What shape does the cipher configuration tradeoff space take under our
 workloads? (\cref{subsec:1})
 \item Can SwitchCrypt achieve dynamic security/energy tradeoffs by reaching
 configuration points not accessible with prior work? (\cref{subsec:2})
 \item What is the performance and storage overhead of each cipher switching
 strategy? (\cref{subsec:3})
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Switching Strategies Under Various Workloads} \label{subsec:1}

\begin{figure}[ht]
  \textbf{Baseline Cipher I/O Performance}\par\medskip
  {\input{data/sc/tradeoff-no-ratios.tex}} \caption{Median sequential and random
  write and then read performance baseline.}
 \label{fig:tradeoff-no-ratios}
\end{figure}

\figref{tradeoff-no-ratios} shows the relative round count, ciphertext
randomization, and ciphertext expansion scores versus median normalized latency
tradeoff between different stream cipher configurations for our sequential and
random I/O workloads. Trends for median hold when looking at tail latencies as
well. Each line represents one workload: 4KB, 512KB, 5MB, and 40MB respectively
(see legend). Each symbol represents one of our ciphers: ChaCha8, ChaCha20,
Freestyle Fast, Freestyle Balanced, and Freestyle Strong. Of the ciphers we
tested, those with higher round counts and higher ciphertext randomization
scores resulted in higher latency and increased energy use for I/O operations.
The relationship between these concerns is not simply linear, however, which
exposes a rich tradeoff space.

Besides the 4KB workload, the shape of each workload follows a similar trend,
hence we will focus on 40MB and 4KB workloads going forward. Due to the overhead
of metadata management and the fast completion time of the 4KB workloads
(\ie{little time for amortization of overhead}), ChaCha8 and ChaCha20 take
longer to complete than Freestyle Fast. This advantage is not enough to make
Freestyle Balanced or Secure workloads complete faster than the ChaCha variants,
however.

Though ChaCha8 is faster than ChaCha20, there is some variability in
our timing setup when capturing extremely fast events occurring close together
in time. This is why ChaCha8 sometimes appears with higher latency than ChaCha20
for normalized 4KB workloads. ChaCha8 is not slower than ChaCha20.

\subsection{Reaching Between Static Configuration Points} \label{subsec:2}

\begin{figure}[ht]
  \textbf{Forward Switching I/O Ratio Performance}\par\medskip
  {\input{data/sc/tradeoff-with-ratios.tex}} \caption{Median sequential and random
  write and then read back performance comparison of Forward switching to
  baseline. Each cluster of 3 dots between configurations represents the 7:3,
  5:5, and 3:7 primary-vs-secondary I/O ratios described in the text.}
 \label{fig:tradeoff-with-ratios}
\end{figure}

\figref{tradeoff-with-ratios} shows the relative round count, ciphertext
randomization, and ciphertext expansion scores versus median normalized latency
tradeoff between different stream ciphers for our sequential and random I/O
workloads with cipher switching using the Forward strategy. After a certain
number of write-read I/O operations, a cipher switch is initiated and
SwitchCrypt begins using the secondary cipher to encrypt and decrypt data. For
each pair of ciphers, this is repeated three times: once at every ratio point
\emph{between} our static configuration points (\ie{7:3, 5:5, and 3:7 described
above}).

The point of this experiment is to determine if SwitchCrypt can effectively
transition the drive between ciphers without devastating performance. For the
40MB, 5MB, and 512KB workloads (40MB is shown), we see that SwitchCrypt can
achieve dynamic security/energy tradeoffs reaching points not accessible with
prior work, all with minimal overhead.

Again, due to the overhead of metadata management for non-Freestyle ciphers (see
\secref{sc-implementation}) and the fast completion time of the 4KB workloads
preventing SwitchCrypt from taking advantage of amortization, ChaCha8 and
ChaCha20 take longer to complete than Freestyle Fast for 4KB reads. We also see
very high latency for ratios between Freestyle Fast and Freestyle Strong cipher
configurations. This is because Freestyle is not length-preserving, so extra
write operations must be performed, and the algorithm itself is generally much
slower than the ChaCha variants (see \figref{tradeoff-no-ratios}). Doubly
invoking Freestyle in a ratio configuration means these penalties are paid more
often.

\begin{figure}[ht]
  \textbf{Mirrored/Selective Switching I/O Ratio Performance}\par\medskip
  \centering
  {\input{data/sc/mirrored-selective-baseline.tex}} \caption{Median sequential and
  random write and then read back performance comparison of Mirrored and
  Selective switching strategies to baseline.}
 \label{fig:mirrored-selective-baseline}
\end{figure}

\figref{mirrored-selective-baseline} show the performance of the Mirrored and
Selective strategies with the same configuration of ratios as
\figref{tradeoff-with-ratios}.

For the 40MB, 5MB, and 512KB workloads (40MB is shown), we see that Mirrored and
Selective \emph{read} workloads and the Selective \emph{write} workload achieve
parity with the Forward strategy experiments. This makes sense, as most of the
overhead for Selective and Mirrored reads is determining which part of the drive
to commit data to. The same applies to Selective writes. For the 4KB Mirrored
and Selective \emph{read} workloads and the Selective \emph{write} workload, we
see behavior similar to that in \figref{tradeoff-with-ratios}, as expected.

Mirrored writes across all workloads are very slow. This is to be expected,
since the data is being mirrored across all areas of the drive. In our
experiments, the drive can be considered partitioned in half. This overhead is
most egregious for the 4KB Mirrored write workload. This makes Selective
preferable to Mirrored. However, it is a tradeoff; Selective cannot quickly
converge the drive to a single cipher configuration or survive the loss of an
entire region.

\subsection{Cipher Switching Overhead} \label{subsec:3}

We calculate that Forward switching has average overhead at 0.08x/0.10x for
40MB, 5MB and 512KB read/write workloads compared to baseline I/O, demonstrating
SwitchCrypt's amortization of cipher switching costs. Average overhead
is\\0.38x/0.44x for 4KB read/write workloads when SwitchCrypt is unable to
amortize cost. There is no spatial overhead with the Forward switching strategy.

Similarly, we calculate that Selective switching has average overhead at 0x/0.3x
for 40MB, 5MB and 512KB read/write workloads compared to baseline I/O. Average
overhead is 0.22x/0.71x for 4KB read/write workloads. Spatial overhead in our
experiment was half of all writable space on the drive.

Finally, we calculate that Mirrored switching has average overhead at
0.25x/0.61x for 40MB, 5MB and 512KB read/write workloads compared to baseline
I/O, with high write latency due to mirroring. Average overhead is 0.55x/0.77x
for 4KB read/write workloads. Spatial overhead in our experiment was half of all
writable space on the drive.

These overhead numbers are the penalty paid for the additional flexibility of
being able to reach configurations points that are unachievable without
SwitchCrypt. SwitchCrypt's design keeps these overheads acceptably low in
practice, achieving the desired goal of flexibly navigating latency/security
tradeoffs for FDE.

\subsection{Revisiting Our Threat Model} \label{subsec:4}

The incorporation of cipher switching requires considering each attack in the
context of each strategy and novel attacks on mixed-cipher nugget states.
\tblref{security} lists possible attacks and their results. It can be inferred
from these results and SwitchCrypt's design that SwitchCrypt addresses its
threat model and maintains confidentiality and integrity guarantees. In the case
of the final attack, we stress that even the least scored cipher is still
considered secure (\secref{sc-design}).

\begin{table}[t]
  \caption{Attacks on SwitchCrypt and their results} \label{tbl:security}
  \footnotesize
  \centering
  \begin{tabu} to \linewidth { | X[l] | X[c] | X[c] | }
    \hline
    \textbf{Attack} & \textbf{Result} & \textbf{Explanation} \\
    \hline\hline
    Nugget data in drive is mutated out-of-band online & SwitchCrypt immediately
    fails with exception on successive IO request & Regardless of switching
    strategy, Merkle Tree check fails on read-in\\
    \hline
    Header/cipher metadata in drive is mutated out-of-band online & SwitchCrypt
    immediately fails with exception on successive IO request & Regardless of
    switching strategy, Merkle Tree check fails on read-in\\
    \hline
    drive is rolled back to a previously consistent state while online &
    SwitchCrypt immediately fails with exception on successive IO request &
    Regardless of switching strategy, secure monotonic counter is out of sync
    with the system\\
    \hline
    drive is rolled back to a previously consistent state while offline, secure
    counter wildly out of sync & SwitchCrypt refuses to mount; allows for force
    mount with root access & Regardless of switching strategy, secure monotonic
    counter is out of sync with the system\\
    \hline
    Merkle Tree made inconsistent by mutating drive out-of-band while offline,
    secure counter in sync & SwitchCrypt refuses to mount & Secure monotonic
    counter is in sync with the system, yet illegal data manipulation occurred\\
    \hline
    Nugget accessed out-of-band in mixed-cipher drive & Nugget's cipher may not
    match active configuration & Worst case, the nugget data is available
    encrypted with the lowest scored cipher in the system\\
    \hline\hline
  \end{tabu}
\end{table}
